README.md, before:

run_sage
========

Pick and execute one version of Sage from many different installed versions.

While developing for [Sage](http://sagemath.org), we often have multiple
versions of Sage installed. It would be really useful if the version of
Sage that is desired to be run can be chosen at run time. Additionally, the
process is run with ulimit to ensure that it does not exceed certain memory
limits.

Behavior
--------

The behavior of the script is as follows. All the arguments it receives are
passed on to a Sage process. It tries to do "The Right Thing" depending on
the argument that is passed to the script.

1. If it is run from a graphical interface, or from the desktop file, then
   it opens a terminal process and runs itself in the terminal.

2. If there are no arguments, or the first argument is `-n` or `--notebook`
   then the script provides the user with a selection of the versions of
   Sage that are installed. Once the user selects the Sage version, the
   corresponding Sage is launched with the rest of the arguments. It also
   writes this version of Sage into a config file in
   `$HOME/.config/sage.config`.

3. If any other argument is present, then the script first tries to run the
   Sage version that is present in the config file. If the config file is
   empty, or if the corresponding Sage installation is not found, then the
   script tries the first Sage version that it finds installed. So, from
   the perspective of the user, it behaves as if there was no intermediary
   script between the Sage binary and the user command and as if the user
   had run that Sage version directly.

4. Irrespective of whether 2. or 3. ensues, the Sage process is run under
   `ulimit`.

The following files are present in the repository.

1. `sage` - This is an executable file that must be configured at the
   very top of the file. The first variable in the file `MY_SAGE_DIR`
   must be configured before the script will successfully run. This
   directory must point to the directory where the sage installations
   are present.

2. `Sage.desktop` - This is a Linux desktop file. The `Icon` field
   within the file must be provided with the full path to a Sage icon.
   This file must be copied to `$HOME/.local/share/applications`.
   Thereafter, it will appear in your desktop environment's application
   menu under Office or Education. When the menu is used, the Sage
   notebook will be launched by executing Sage in a terminal.

User configurable variables
---------------------------

The following variables at the top of the script are user configurable.

1. `MY_SAGE_DIR` - This variable stores the directory where all the sage
   versions are installed. For instance, sage-5.8 may be installed as
   `$MY_SAGE_DIR/sage-5.8`. This variable must be set.

2. `MAX_MEMORY` - This variable stores the maximum amount of virtual memory
   that is allowed for the Sage process. This is used to set the maximum
   memory by running:

    ulimit -v $MAX_MEMORY

   This prevents some very computational process from bringing down the
   whole system. The default amount is set to half the RAM present in the
   system.

3. `TERMINAL` - This variable sets the terminal that is used if the script
   is called from a desktop file. It need not be set. The script will
   default to at least `xterm` in case it doesn't find some other terminal.

Demo
----

This [YouTube video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iRsWHC0t-Ik) shows the behavior.

Dependencies
------------

The script depends on bash-4.0 or higher, xterm (or some other terminal),
sed, grep, and dialog. On a Debian Linux derivative, or Fedora Linux
derivative, you will have to install dialog since it is not installed by
default.

Commit message:

move the configurations to ~/.config/run_sage.conf

README.md, after:

run_sage
========

Pick and execute one version of Sage from many different installed versions.

While developing for [Sage](http://sagemath.org), we often have multiple
versions of Sage installed. It would be really useful if the version of
Sage that is desired to be run can be chosen at run time. Additionally, the
process is run with ulimit to ensure that it does not exceed certain memory
limits.

Behavior
--------

The behavior of the script is as follows. All the arguments it receives are
passed on to a Sage process. It tries to do "The Right Thing" depending on
the argument that is passed to the script.

1. At the very first time, run it once so that it creates the configuration
   files and then set the variable `my_sage_dir` in the configuration file.

2. If it is run from a graphical interface, or from the desktop file, then
   it opens a terminal process and runs itself in the terminal.

3. If there are no arguments, or the first argument is `-n` or `--notebook`
   then the script provides the user with a selection of the versions of
   Sage that are installed. Once the user selects the Sage version, the
   corresponding Sage is launched with the rest of the arguments. It also
   writes this version of Sage into a config file in
   `$HOME/.config/sage.config`.

4. If any other argument is present, then the script first tries to run the
   Sage version that is present in the config file. If the config file is
   empty, or if the corresponding Sage installation is not found, then the
   script tries the first Sage version that it finds installed. So, from
   the perspective of the user, it behaves as if there was no intermediary
   script between the Sage binary and the user command and as if the user
   had run that Sage version directly.

5. Irrespective of whether 3. or 4. ensues, the Sage process is run under
   `ulimit`.

The following files are present in the repository.

1. `sage` - This is an executable file that must be configured at the
   very top of the file. The first variable `my_sage_dir` in the
   configuration file `$HOME/.config/run_sage.conf` must be configured
   before the script will successfully run. This directory must point to
   the directory where the sage installations are present.

2. `Sage.desktop` - This is a Linux desktop file. The `Icon` field
   within the file must be provided with the full path to a Sage icon.
   This file must be copied to `$HOME/.local/share/applications`.
   Thereafter, it will appear in your desktop environment's application
   menu under Office or Education. When the menu is used, the Sage
   notebook will be launched by executing Sage in a terminal.

User configurable variables
---------------------------

The following variables in the configuration file
`$HOME/.config/run_sage.conf` are configurable. This configuration file
will be automatically created the first time the script is run.

1. `my_sage_dir` - This variable stores the directory where all the sage
   versions are installed. For instance, sage-5.8 may be installed as
   `$MY_SAGE_DIR/sage-5.8`. This variable must be set.

2. `max_memory` - This variable stores the maximum amount of virtual memory
   that is allowed for the Sage process. This is used to set the maximum
   memory by running:

    ulimit -v $max_memory

   This prevents some very computational process from bringing down the
   whole system. The default amount is set to half the RAM present in the
   system.

3. `terminal` - This variable sets the terminal that is used if the script
   is called from a desktop file. It need not be set. The script will
   default to at least `xterm` in case it doesn't find some other terminal.

Demo
----

This [YouTube video](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iRsWHC0t-Ik) shows the behavior.

Dependencies
------------

The script depends on bash-4.0 or higher, xterm (or some other terminal),
sed, grep, and dialog. On a Debian Linux derivative, or Fedora Linux
derivative, you will have to install dialog since it is not installed by
default.
